Please check the resources section of this lecture.
There is a PDF download available.
In this lecture, we are going to create a database using Maria DBI, they are no configuration files
in the section.
We will not be using my admin to administer our databases.
Be my admin is a tremendous security risk.
It's an overkill to install my admin to only create the databases.
My admin is a frequent target of attack.
From the beginning of the course, we only install what's needed.
Using the command line to administer databases is Hezi.
The steps to create a database are as follows.
You log in to Maria DB.
The first step, you create the database.
The second step you give that user privileges.
That is certain rights on the database.
All that's left is then to refresh the database.
Two important points.
All database commands end in a semicolon and when needed, you need to use an apostrophe for the database,
name, username and password.
I recommend you use randomly generated characters, at least eight characters long, preferably ten
characters.
You can visit random dot org to generate a list for you.
You can open the site, random dot org in your browser, under lists and more.
You have strings.
We want to generate 200 strings.
Each string should be 10 characters long.
We would like numeric digits, uppercase letters and lowercase letters.
You can then select get strings.
I recommend you select the list that was generated for you and copy, open your text editor, create
a file random strings and paste the list into that far.
There are quite a few commands that we need to cover.
When you create databases, the commands are relatively straightforward to use.
Firstly, to log in to Maria DB sudo my Esquibel hyphen, you leave a space followed by route.
We are logging in as the root user, all my skirl commands and in a semicolon to display a list of all
databases.
The commands show databases to create a database, create database, leave a space followed by the database
name granting privileges on a database.
You are giving that database user that you created certain rights on the database.
This command is quite long.
What's important with the grant all privileges command is that you do not leave out the apostrophes.
The database username is enclosed in apostrophes, localhost apostrophes, password apostrophes.
I've split the command up into three lines just for display purposes.
The command must be typed on a single line, grant all privileges on the database name dot asterisks
to apostrophe the database username apostrophe at apostrophe localhost apostrophe identified by password
that is also enclosed in two apostrophes semi colon.
Once you've created a database, you've added a user.
You've given that user privileges.
You need to flush the privileges.
That is, refresh the database.
If you would like to view a particular user's privileges, you can use the show grants for the user
name at localhost.
Please make note of the apostrophes to delete the database drop database followed by the database name.
If you would like to delete a user drop user followed by the user name.
Finally to exit Marea DB you would type exit.
There is no semicolon after exit.